The Merge Sort algorithm is a sorting algorithm that is based on the Divide and Conquer paradigm. In this algorithm, the array is initially divided into two equal halves and then they are combined in a sorted manner.

Merge Sort Working Process:
Think of it as a recursive algorithm continuously splits the array in half until it cannot be further divided. This means that if the array becomes empty or has only one element left, the dividing will stop, i.e. it is the base case to stop the recursion. If the array has multiple elements, split the array into halves and recursively invoke the merge sort on each of the halves. Finally, when both halves are sorted, the merge operation is applied. Merge operation is the process of taking two smaller sorted arrays and combining them to eventually make a larger one.

Time Complexity of merge sort is O(N log(N)),  Sorting arrays on different machines. Merge Sort is a recursive algorithm and time complexity can be expressed as following recurrence relation. 

T(n) = 2T(n/2) + θ(n)

The above recurrence can be solved either using the Recurrence Tree method or the Master method. It falls in case II of the Master Method and the solution of the recurrence is θ(Nlog(N)). The time complexity of Merge Sort isθ(Nlog(N)) in all 3 cases (worst, average, and best) as merge sort always divides the array into two halves and takes linear time to merge two halves.

Auxiliary Space: O(n), In merge sort all elements are copied into an auxiliary array. So N auxiliary space is required for merge sort.

Is Merge sort In Place?
No, In merge sort the merging step requires extra space to store the elements.

Is Merge sort Stable?
Yes, merge sort is stable. 

How can we make Merge sort more efficient?
Merge sort can be made more efficient by replacing recursive calls with Insertion sort for smaller array sizes, where the size of the remaining array is less or equal to 43 as the number of operations required to sort an array of max size 43 will be less in Insertion sort as compared to the number of operations required in Merge sort.